with breaking news in a major escalation
of the crisis in the Middle East Iran
has started a direct attack on Israel by
launching dozens of drones to attack
targets there they're expected to reach
Israel in the next couple of hours
Israel says its armed forces are on full
alert with combat planes in the air Iran
has said it wants revenge for a
suspected Israeli attack almost two
weeks ago on its Consulate in Damascus
when the US President Joe Biden has cut
short his weekend to turn to the White
House for briefings on the crisis well
in a moment we'll get the very latest
from Washington and our correspondent
there will Vernon first though let's go
straight to James landel who's live for
us in Jerusalem tonight and James this
is an attack that Israel has been
expecting for several days
now yeah that's right Ben ever since
that attack on the Iranian Consulate in
Syria there's been growing speculation
that Iran will have to respond in some
way there's been talk about different
types of attack but it now appears that
attack is underway military spokesman
here in Israel say that uh drones have
now been launched from Iran they are
directed towards Israel there have been
reports from Iraq of drone many drones
been seen in the sky the Israeli
spokesman said that those drones will
take some hours before they reach uh
their target here and he says that uh
he's confident that Israel's air
defenses will shoot them down uh early
today just before this attack was
formally confirmed the Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu gave an address to
the nation saying that his country would
overcome all its
enemies Israeli citizens in recent years
and even more so in recent weeks Israel
has been preparing for the possibility
of a direct attack from
Iran our defense systems are deployed we
are prepared for any scenario both in
defense and attack the state of Israel
is strong the IDF is strong and the
public is
strong now as you heard there the
Israelis at the moment are just talking
about drones but the Iranian
revolutionary guards have put out a
statement saying that they are attacking
with drones and missiles too and in a
statement the uh supreme leader in Iran
Ali aai said and I quote the malicious
Zionist regime that's his name for
Israel will be punished for what he
called an attack on Iranian soil in
other words the attack on the Iranian
Consulate in Syria now the question
tonight is how effective this attack
will be and what response Israel may
make uh as a result of that a spokesman
said this evening this is a severe and
dangerous escalation Ben all right James
thank you very much indeed that's James
landel live in Jerusalem let's go to
will Vernon in Washington and will the
United States states of course is
Israel's closest Ally President Joe
Biden has promised Ironclad support in
his words for Israel uh with this attack
tonight that's right Ben President Biden
is back in the white house he earlier
cut short a weekend away in Delaware to
come back to Washington and attend uh
that urgent uh National Security Council
meeting and we've had a statement from
National Security uh Council saying Iran
has begun an Airborne attack against
Israel President Biden is being regular
updated on the situation by his National
Security team who are in constant
communication with Israeli officials and
it goes on to say that this attack is
likely to unfold over a number of hours
and unnamed us officials have been
speaking to us media uh saying that they
expect uh this drone attack to be
synchronized with missiles that could be
uh launched later on uh but as you said
President Biden and other us officials
have repeatedly said over the pre over
the last few days uh that American
support for Israeli security is Ironclad
and we know that US forces uh in the
region are on alert and are ready uh to
assist uh the Israelis uh with
protecting their territory uh but uh us
intelligence officials here reportedly
uh believe that the Iranians are
targeting multiple sites uh inside
Israel but importantly not US forces uh
in the region uh directly that would of
course uh be a dangerous escalation
that's what everyone uh here uh is Keen
to avoid any sort of tit for at
escalatory uh retaliatory conflict uh
that could ignite a wider Regional War